when things slow down in the economy
what makes you stand out from the
competition is having a personal brand
and today we're going to use chat GPT to
redefine to clarify your brand message
in seven
questions hey my name is shelen Johnson
and today thank you for joining me here
on build your tribe that's exactly what
we're going to do we're going to use
chat gbt and just seven simple questions
that will help you to better clarify
what it is you stand for and how it is
you stand out from the competition but
before we do that I just want to share
with you a couple of really powerful and
important statistics that really drive
this message home 77% of consumers say
that they are more likely to buy from
your company when they know what you the
CEO stands for and 49% of people say
that the reputation of a company is
completely dependent upon the CEO's
reputation the message of marketing is
clear we see the owners of the company
we see the person behind the brand as
the brand itself I mean that's what
brand is really all about right it's
it's your reputation but it's more than
just what people think about you it's
also how you help people to think about
you so today I want to help you clarify
that by taking you through an exercise
that I've gone through personally as you
know we've got several different
businesses or maybe you don't know that
if this is the first time youve ever
tuned into a build your tribe episode uh
you might not know that I've been in
business for more than 40 years I've
built and founded and sold countless
companies currently we've got like five
or six different businesses that we're
always developing and always trying to
refine our brand messaging and it's in
the refinement that marketing becomes
easier we don't have to sell as much
like our brand speaks for itself and I'm
the CEO of most of these brands with the
exception of one and so the reputation
or how it is I Define my personal brand
has an impact on every single one of
those businesses but today let's just
assume that you're focused on selling
one thing or one business or you
yourself are the business you are the
brand but is it really clear to people
what makes you different than the
competition because let's face it there
are a ton of people out there they're
doing exactly what you do there's a ton
of people out there that do exactly what
I do so I have to make it abundantly
clear to people what makes me different
so that those who are like looking for
something like that which I offer are
like okay finally I've been looking for
someone just like this and for those who
are like that yeah that's not what I
want they don't feel like they've walked
into a bait and switch like there's
nothing worse than having a customer
think that they are going to like your
stuff and then ultimately they figure
out like what it is you offer isn't in
alignment with their own goals or their
own needs I don't want to waste people's
time and I love working with customers
that like get it you know what I mean
like it's so awesome it's so fulfilling
it's so rewarding when you can totally
be yourself you don't have to put on any
special Voice or dress a certain way or
show up a certain way that feels
inauthentic to you because you're trying
to appeal to someone who
frankly you're not going to have fun
serving them anyways they're not your
kind of person you're not their kind of
leader you're not the brand that they're
looking for okay I'm going to give you
the seven chat GPT questions that chat
GPT asked me and I'm also going to share
with you how I responded to them because
I think it will inspire you to find your
own verbiage and to to understand like
how indepth I was in my responses and
then at the end I'm going to share with
you one additional prompt that's gonna
like change the game this is the prompt
that makes all the difference in the
world but let's start with these first
seven questions so the first question
that chat GPT asked was what are the top
three words that you want people to
associate with you when they think of
your personal brand my response was
honest trustworthy and inspirational the
next question was what is something
unique about your background your
experiences or the approach that sets
you apart from others in your industry
so here's my reply I spent many years on
the other side of health and fitness
industry OV exercising undering and
teaching women my same age to do the
same and in the process I damaged my own
health to achieve a certain look since
that time I've focused on what true
Health looks like and especially how
women over 40 need to eat exercise and
supplement with their hormone levels in
mind today I'm leaner stronger and I
exercise less with better results that
was my response so I want to give you a
moment to maybe copy and paste that chat
GPT prompt and to think about what your
responses would be the third question
was who exactly is your ideal audience
their values their Lifestyles their
challenges what problems are they trying
to solve that you can uniquely address
here's my response and it's long they
are women in the age range of 40 to 60
who are struggling with symptoms related
to hormone decline but they don't
realize it they want to feel like
themselves again they want to be heard
they want to look amazing they want to
feel great and not experience the side
effects of menopause that their mothers
experienced and that's a pretty detailed
explanation so again notice that I
talked about like what she's feeling
what do she wants to achieve what is
she's been through what she doesn't want
like the more detail you can give Chachi
PT the better speaking of how midlife
women are expected to dress I don't
subscribe to any of those rules I dress
for me like I I dress in outfits that I
think are cute and guess what do you
want to see my entire outfit I will show
you my entire outfit all you have to do
is click the Subscribe button if you're
already subscribed then don't worry
about the Subscribe button but if you
click the like button automatically this
video will cut to me walking on a runway
in this outfit ready let's go light my
fuse set me on fire striking a match on
my lips hot like June cutting the wire
shutting the lights off in this room
don't you feel it too heartbeat go like
boom boom boom when I'm with you one
tchc fly Sparks see there I am that
that's my outfit see how that works all
you had to do is subscribe and like and
boom you just you got the full outfit
all right enough fashion back to chb the
fourth question what transformation or
result do you want to help your audience
target audience how would their life be
different after working with you or
consuming your content here's my
response they will feel fully informed
feel empowered with the latest academic
research and science-based advice so
that they can make fully informed
decisions about their hormones they will
realize how much more fulfilling this
season of their lives actually can be
okay and I love that Chad GPT is going
to say that's fantastic if this is a
vision for transformation okay next
question how do you want to communicate
with your audience what platforms do you
want to use okay so probably like me my
answer to that is I I want to be on all
the platforms so I answered this one
specific to the tone that I use and the
tone that I want to hear and the tone
that I want my customers to be
accustomed to hearing and I think it
does set me apart from others because I
do well I'll share you with you my
answer so here's my answer I would
communicate using all the platforms and
the communication would be on their
level Real Talk they will get honest
answers for me that are not sugarcoated
I'm never black and white because I do
not believe that there's a one-size fit
all answer to these problems my
communication style needs to sound and
feel informal almost like a text message
from a friend here's the sixth question
what are the core values and principles
that guide your work and how you serve
your audience there should be non
negotiable aspects of how you operate I
loved that okay so great here's my
answer I cannot be bought I refuse to
lead my girl astray I will always be
willing to update or change our position
based on recommendations or new research
or credible sourced experts my number
one objective is to help them be the
boss of their own lives and to do what
is right for them based on research and
a collect
of vetted and respected experts and not
the trends okay seventh question what is
your ultimate Mission or purpose and
what impact do you want to have on the
world or in your audience's life and so
that was a really good question to think
about like and I had not thought about
that until I went through this exercise
what impact do I want to make on the
world because I think sometimes we just
consider our target audience but when I
think about it I really would like to
make this change in the world so I loved
that I was prompted to answer this so
here's my response I want to change the
way women experience midlife and
therefore I want to impact the world's
view of midlife I want women who are in
their 20s and 30s to be so excited to be
older the way that we were once excited
like when we were pre-teens when we
couldn't wait to be older we couldn't
wait to be teenagers we couldn't wait
for those freedoms and the exciting
things that came with being older I want
them to feel excited about becoming a
queenager and most important what
midlife should look like and feel like
women who are younger think that when
they hit midlife that they're going to
be dried up overweight invisible and
miserable with symptoms from menopause I
want them to understand it doesn't have
to be that way I want women to be
excited about the Afterparty answering
that question like really thinking about
it got me so excited I was just like
flying on the keyboard so those are the
seven questions then I asked chat PT
after all those responses and this is
the prompt that you're going to put in
here's the prompt now taking everything
that I've said ask me any additional
questions to clarify anything you need
to create a brand statement or a mission
statement for my brand and so that's
where based on what questions you ask
it's going to be different for each one
of us chat GPT may ask some follow-up
questions once you get those follow-up
questions your final prompt is this take
everything that I've given you and
create for me a a brand statement and
voila I mean this brand statement is
almost perfect I think I could refine it
a little bit and that's the thing with
chat GPT it's only as good as your
follow-up questions it's only as good as
your prompts and in some cases I'm like
I don't even need to give it more
prompts I just need to like tweak some
of this language and that's exactly what
I did once chat GPT gave me my mission
statement it made me feel more excited
about my brand gave me language and a
very concise way of explaining my
mission to others this is something that
I recently used with we're working with
a new new branding expert like to work
on our colors and themes and all those
things and and whether that's something
you want to do and I can do a follow-up
video on that like how to take your
mission statement and now turn it into
the visual side of your brand but here's
what I want you to know especially if
you're somebody who is in midlife brands
are looking for you they can't find you
unless you stand out you've got to put
yourself out there that means you've got
to show up online that means you've got
to start making YouTubes and and Tik
toks and whatever social media platform
you're most comfortable with you got to
start showing up but you need to show up
in a way that's really clear what your
values are what it is you stand for who
it is you're trying to help so that you
can align with the right Brands the
brands that match the message that you
represent doing this exercise has helped
me to much more clearly identify what
brands I want to work with and it's also
made it much easier for the brands that
have reached out to me to realize like
we're not in alignment I'm not a good
fit for you this is not a partnership
that's going to happen so I encourage
you to go through this process and I
encourage you to continue to refine your
brand like every probably six months
because as we change so too does our
brand Like Our Brands become more
refined we become more clear on what it
is we stand for and who it is we want to
help thanks so much for joining me here
on build your tribe if you haven't
already please make sure that you're
subscribed thank you for spending your
time with me it is my goal to be brief
to be bright to make it fun and then be
done we're done
[Music]